Well, let's go ahead and get started because we have not one lab manager today, but three
because we have a selection of fun project showcases from the community to share with
you today. And to get us started, we have Damie Pak. Damie, would you like to introduce
yourself?
Hello, my name is Damie Pak. So I am dressed up as Lubega. I don't have any of the clothes
required for it. But I was going to talk about the most serious question of our human existence.
If you did not know when Mambo No. 5 came out, how would you know? And through the woman's
name in Mambo No. 5, if you remember the bridge that goes, like, a little bit of Jessica or
a little bit of Erica.
You should know all the lyrics by now.
Well, I'm just like, you know, I have one wife, and she does not like me, you know,
saying all of these other woman's names. Anyway, so my real wife, not Lubega's wife. Anyway,
so I'm going to be talking about, like, how I kind of thought of the project and my kind
of, like, philosophy about how to do stupid projects, because I think they're really important
to learn. And then just kind of like, more of a, I'm not sure if this is the right way,
but this is how I do it. And maybe feedback from the community. And then more of a, where
do we go on from here? Like, maybe we could do this with a Bad Bunny song that goes like
titi, my Spanish is terrible.
All right, little dummy, you have 15 minutes on the clock, just as a reminder.
All right. So let's look at my RStudio code. I have not looked at the Mambo No. 5 code
since I published it. So we're going to go and then see if we could even, like, figure
out what's happening, if I actually documented it well. And then just talk about, like, how
I did the structure of it.
So this is how I did my Mambo No. 5. And the weird thing is, is that I was in academia
before, and a lot of academic coding is a lot about, like, not really reproducibility,
or I mean, it is, but I think there's more of, like, this focus on just, like, a script,
like just figures, and we don't really care about whether it's modular or not. And I've
been trying to, like, learn from that.
So basically, how I set up these kind of, like, data analysis scripts, especially if
there's a lot of math, is that I really enjoy having the math as a supplement to the GitHub
repo. I think that's really important. Because when I do a lot of analysis, or when I did
a lot of mathematical modeling in R for my postdoc, I mean, the code is whatever, but
the math, the fundamental part that moves the machinery is so important. So, you know,
I would love, I love Korto, I love how you could just, like, can you guys see my, sorry,
let me just...
Well, we were looking at RStudio. I couldn't see RStudio.
Oh, yeah. Okay. So this is, like, my, you know, the full mathematical model. So, you
know, even the silly side project, where the question was, how do we use Bayesian formula?
How do we use the analysis to figure out what year was Mambo No. 5 released based
on the woman's name that appear in the song? So, you know, that's a silly question, but
that's actually kind of, like, a really interesting, you know, way of thinking about Bayesian statistics.
I never did Bayesian science, ever. Like, this was my first time ever doing it. And
so I was so scared on starting the project. And I was like, oh, no, what if I mess up?
And everyone thinks I'm stupid. They sent me to jail. And then I just tried to think
of, like, the silliest project, and that was Mambo No. 5. But even the simple act of taking
that simple, you know, question, like, there is a lot of math involved. And so, you know,
I really enjoy having Korto, and then just having the math, and then showing it to people
in the community to make sure I'm doing it right. Anyway, so let's just move to the coding
project. And so let's see. So let's see. I see SRC. So I must have been really smart,
and actually made all of my functions. Yeah, I must have made all of my functions, you
know, like, documented, and I'm actually really proud of that. I was really mad at HeliWicom,
because what I did was I used social security data to figure out the name popularity of
babies. And I was going through, like, the actual US government pulling that data. And
then HeliWicom had to ruin my day and actually have an R package already out. So I did this
for nothing. You can see that that's why I got a little frowny face here. And basically,
with that data, I could then try to figure out, calculate the likelihood. So the likelihood
that tells me, you know, given this year, you know, what is the probability that I would
see these names, the joint probability. And I'm actually proud that I commented. Like,
I'm actually really surprised that I actually put comments, because I generally don't, especially
for stupid side project. Oh, my God, I actually put like, oh, the parameter names, too. Wow.
Past Dami was, I think she was trying to impress someone. But anyway. So basically, what you
would do is that you would give like a data frames of the names across the United States.
And then, you know, have like a general prior belief of what the release years was, you
know, you know, is it did the song come out in 1970, versus like 2000. And then like,
maybe some belief of how old the women are, because like, they're in the club, they should
be like over 21. Or maybe they're like 18. They're using fake IDs. And then so, wow,
I actually put a lot of comments. And I am so surprised at this. Um, but basically, um,
I could see that I was like trying to compute the joint probabilities here. And then I was
marginalizing by age, I'm not sure what that means. But basically, I think, from this project,
I was really forcing myself to actually think more modularly. So how if I want to, you know,
adapt this to a different song, how am I going to make it so that it could be completely
adapted to another music with like woman's name in it. And then one thing that I'm not
quite sure is the best way I'm not sure how people in the community do this is that I
try to keep like, the analysis scripts different than the than the functions, like using like,
two different R script files. I'm not sure if this is the right way of doing it. This
is the way that works for me, that's the most organized. I know people like doing the,
you know, actually having like the quarto document, and then just having this one main
prod, you know, one main like file that shows everything. But I kind of prefer to script
method more with like, the numbers, I can like kind of see like, in which order I should
run them. Not sure if this is the best way. But this is kind of how I do it. And then
you can see here that this script is just simply for processing the names, like we all
know that 99% of the things that you do is processing, cleaning. And then this is kind
of like a really bad script, because you can see this is where I got really tired, and
did not put much comments on I have no idea what's happening here. But from what I gather
is that this script just calculates the posterior distribution. So I'm not going to go too much
into the Bayesian math. But, you know, from here, I could see that I process the script,
and then calculated the posterior that kind of gives me an ID, or that kind of gives me
on the probability, the posterior likelihood that the song was released in this year. And
then I think this is like the giant script that made it possible. So we're gonna see
if this even runs, who knows, like, let's all pray and hope that it runs. It does not
Oh my gosh. Live coding is so dangerous. Oh my god, what do we do? We're going to go
to jail. Okay, so I'm just gonna Oh, I guess I'm doing this live and I can just do it the
worst way where I just source all of this by hand, but I don't really care. This is
bad coding. If you'd like to watch Dami do other things live, you can watch her episode
of VizBuzz where she coded plots live. That was pure chaos and tons of fun. And they muted
me so I could not swear. It was terrible. Okay, so let's see. Let's see if that worked.
Not the best way to do it. But you know, we all can't be saints. Yeah, there is no best
way. And also everybody on Discord is saying we do the same things. We keep our stuff separate,
our functions separate from our analysis. You're not alone. Okay. Okay. And then so
this was kind of like the main figure. So this was a figure that I had in mind. So the
posterior distribution and then the different release years. So for example, if from this
figure, when do you think mambo number five was released?
1998 or 99.
99. That was when it was released. And so this, I think this represents a credible interval
from what I remember. But you know, I was kind of proud because I actually never done
much Bayesian analysis. I was like, Oh, this actually worked. Um, I think I should have
gone further, because I should have really like checked some of like my assumptions and
like actually made sure that I was doing things correctly. And I'm actually not sure if the
math is fully correct. And I think that's fine. So I think a lot of my hang ups on like
open science or like showing sharing data project is that I'm terrified of being wrong,
again, you're gonna send me to jail. But I think my way of now thinking is that we're all human,
we're all going to make a mistake. Like it's just inevitable. Like a lot of the things that we do
is really complicated. There's so much moving parts. Like even mambo number five, the silly
side project does have some moving parts. And I think my philosophy changed into actually making
it easy for people to catch my mistake. So you know, I think, I think that's what I was like
trying to do here with like, a lot better like coding and or sorry, commenting and structure
is that I want people to find my mistake and to find it easily because I think it's inevitable.
I'm not sure if that's like the best philosophy to have. But I think this is better than to,
you know, be shy about your mistake and try to hide all of the complexities from people. I think
it's just a lot easier to just lay it open. If people find mistake, they're going to forgive you
for letting it be simple. How much minutes do I have?
You have five minutes and 20 seconds left. And I say showing your mistakes out loud is kind of
the entire point of the science lab. So I'm in full agreement that that's a good idea.
Yeah. So I guess, you know, that philosophy of like showing your mistake, like, that's why I
made the math so like visible, like, you could go through the math, you could write it out,
you could actually try to make sure that the math makes sense. Like I made my wife, who is a
mathematician, actually go through it, like she had a huge deadline. And there's just me being like,
you know, hey, babe, can you actually like look at the math for me? Um, but, you know, that's,
I think that's kind of like the main philosophy that I kind of like, got after I left academia,
like, when knowledge is kind of like the capital of like, career investment, you kind of get shy
about like, letting people know, like, your mistakes, it's like something that is, it just
happens. And so I've been a lot more like, very, like, pro, like, just find my mistakes for me,
like, you know what, you know, I'm just gonna make it happen. And then one thing I'm gonna say
on my last minute, I think I really have to thank Mark, because I actually, he was actually the guy
who looked at a lot of my math for me. And I think it shows the importance of community, just like,
it's nice having people who see your stupid project. And it's like, you know what, I'm going
to treat this as seriously as possible, and actually, like, check your math for you. Like,
I think that's the importance of a data science community. It's not really like the technical
know how, or I mean, it is a technical know how, but just like, having people who just like,
accept and just like, actually are interested and like, actually care about what you stupid thing
you're doing. So and you know, in this kind of age of the AI, I don't think like AI coding can
replace the human connections of like, the silly projects. So that's why I encourage everyone to
do silly projects. Because you should not let machines take away your stupidity. That should
be something very human. And I will stand on this. Do not let the machines take away your yearning.
Like Lubega's number five, number five, number, mambo number five. A machine cannot write that.
I mean, people I mean, you could try do a do a comparison. Now go to go work in cloud. I was
gonna ask you, did you use cloud or any other tools to help you with us at all as you were
writing? So I try not to for a lot of my stupid projects, because it's just a way of learning.
So I give myself three tries. If I'm like, hey, I tried this three times, it does not work.
Then I'd like use cloud and try to see not really ask it to like, code me anything, but just to give
me like, maybe like an outline of how it code. So I do use cloud for that. And I think I've done it
for like, calculating the posterior, but I always make sure to have someone you know, who does
mathematics to check. Amazing. Yeah, I think that the community aspect is really, really important
to and like, there are so many stories of people working out loud in the community and sharing
their stuff. And getting jobs from that, right, like having really life changing things happen
from that. And in all of them that I know, it was all very imperfect. It was like, I put out this
crappy thing. And the magic happens with the feedback and people engaging with it and people
finding it fun and kind of wanting to use it or taking a different direction. So
definitely work out loud. There's a place on the discord server where you can share projects.
But really anywhere on the discord server is a good place to share projects and show people things.
Ask them questions if you share. Well, Dami, you do have like a minute and a half left.
Okay. Oh my god. Oh my god. I had something really great. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my karaoke talk.
Okay, no, not that. Um, I guess. Okay, so in my job interview, so I work at a pharma making
vaccines. And he asked me, have you done anything with Bayesian modeling before? And I swear,
I was thinking about bringing this project up. And I just did it. I did it. I'm like worried.
I don't know. They're gonna be like, so there is a French company. So I was like, Oh, do they have
mambo number five in France? I think mambo number five made it all over the globe. Yeah,
because it's German looping us German. It's a German song.
Who thinks that Damie should have brought this up at an interview? I think so.
Well, they'd be like, hey, you have to make vaccines. Do you know Bayesian? I'm like,
oh, yeah, I did model number five. Like, do you think that would have gone well?
I think it would have. I think it would have been amazing. Well, Damie, thank you so much for
sharing your project with us. It was so much fun. Damie, you have a blog, Isabella.
Which I haven't updated.
Isabella has been sharing it, but that project is there. So if you want to go check out Damie's
math, please go take a look at it. And yeah, oh, I love the picture that Mark just shared
in the Discord server, which is D Rob's 2019 talk about working out loud and sharing public work or
working in public, which is just amazing. And I fully agree with it. Like the more you can do
out in the world, the more valuable your work is. Okay. We are on to our next lab manager in our
lab manager rotation today, which is Mark Rieke. Everybody give a round of applause for Damie
and say hello to Mark. Mark, would you like to introduce yourself?
Yeah. Hi, guys. I normally have a standing meeting on Tuesdays from the data science lab. So this is
actually my first time joining. But I'm a data scientist and a Bayesian statistician and whatever
work needs me to be for the time being. But I'm a big, big Bayesian nerd. So I was very glad when
Damie reached out. I was like, oh, hey, can someone look at this? And I was like, oh, yes,
absolutely. It's my time. Yeah, exactly. Bayesian stats apply to something like niche and weird and
fun. Yes, please. But yeah, so I'll be sharing, I guess like my assumption is that like the Venn
diagram of like people who like come to the data science lab and people who are interested in
dropout, or at least like are, I don't know, I'm guessing that's like a bigger, there's a lot of
overlap in those two groups. Hold on, let's do it. Let's do a poll.
Noor and I raised our hands on camera like nerds. Do you watch dropout TV? Let's see. Yes or no.
All right, poll in Discord. Let us know if you do watch dropout and you know what dropout is.
Can you do like a thumbs up or some sort of like affirmative emoji reaction when you're in Zoom?
Oh, we have a few. Yeah, Jared, Greg, Isabella, amazing. I also subscribe to
dropout. However, I do not watch the one show that Mark is going to be talking about today,
I think so. I'm ready to learn. All right. Yeah. Let's go. I'm going to put 15 minutes on the
clock for Mark starting now. Oh, by the way, everybody, you can ask questions. So like if
you have questions for Dami in the Discord, tag Dami and ask questions. And if there are some that
we can do live at the end, we'll do that. We'll do it in the middle too if we need to. All right.
Go, Mark. Okay. I may actually need to quit and rejoin because Zoom is telling me that I
needed to update permissions and it's not going to update them. So I'll be back in like 15 seconds.
Okay. Dami will do karaoke. Oh, wait. Oh, my God. How does it like Sandra, Jessica,
Arita, no, no, no, Derby.
Wait, are we going to get like a copyright infringement on YouTube if we sing Mambo
No. 5? I replaced all of the girl's name with Caitlyn's name to embarrass her in karaoke.
Oh, you guys. Oh, man. Mark, you have to come back as soon as possible and save us from ourselves.
Well, I remember all the lyrics to Mambo No. 5.
Wait, sing it. You can't just say that and just like nod.
I know, right? It goes, one, two, three, four, five, everybody in the car, so come on this side to the liquor
store around the corner. You know the words. Mark's back. Okay. We did it. Hold on, Mark.
I got to remake you a co-host real quick, my friend. So you can unmute at will. All right.
I'm going to restart your timer, Mark. Sorry about that.
No, I understand. Max, with the permissions in Zoom, it's crazy.
It was fun to come back just to Lubega playing. But yeah, so for folks who don't know,
Um! actually is a show on Dropout. It's just a game show. And the whole premise is
the host will make statements about nerdy things, pop-culturary things. And in each statement,
there is something that is wrong that is said. And the job of the contestants is to buzz in,
be quick on the buzzer, and then make the correction of saying, Um! actually, the quote
isn't like, Luke, I am your father. It's, no, I am your father. It's that kind of level of pedantry.
It's a great doing dishes background noise thing. But in season, in 2024, they swapped hosts
from longtime host Mike Trapp to the person, to Ify Nwadiwe, who had-
I love both of these people. Mike and Ify are both amazing.
Yeah. Ify was referred to as the best contestant. And it was purely based on the fact that he had
the most wins. And I was like, well, you can rack up a lot of wins just by playing the game a whole
bunch. Or you can rack up a lot of wins by playing the game a whole bunch, or by playing against
quote unquote, like lower skilled players. Or, you know, just looking at win count treats a one
point win and like a massive like nine point win as the same, you know, they get treated the same.
So I was like, I wanted to see if Ify Nwadiwe really was, if you like did the math, if he
really was the best I'm actually player. And that led me down like this wonky rabbit hole that is
building out this model. It is it's a Bayesian model. And the nice thing about it is let me
make this bigger. Sorry. The nice thing about like doing stuff in a Bayesian way is that
I'm from like, like, there's like all of this sort of like philosophical reasons that I am a
dork for Bayesian statistics. But there is also like the practical benefit of that, like,
the input the software to make the like to implement the model itself is super flexible
and malleable such that you can rather than try and like hemorrhage your data or like,
you know, bash it with a hammer to try and get it to fit your modeling software, you can
tweak your model to fit your data generating process. And this is like one of the weirdest
models that I've ever fit. There's like normally there's three contestants and like one person
gets a point in each round. And that has its own sort of like wonky math that goes along with it.
And sometimes, though, multiple contestants like get a point on the same round. And you have to
like handle that edge. And sometimes everyone gets a point. So, like, this handles that edge case.
Sometimes oh, and this is I was not I am just scrolling through and rediscovering all of the old
nightmares of trying to get this to work. This is like the flow tree of like,
if two players are awarded a point, what is the probability that like a player is awarded a point
based on their underlying skill that the model is calculating? So, I don't know. This is all
kind of like a long way of saying that this really wacky, weird, nonsense project had a
lot going on under the hood. Much like dummies. Yeah, exactly. I'm gonna scroll down. Yeah,
and there's like there was a single one off like four player game that gets got included in this
as well. And then there's team games. Oh, my gosh. There were so there's so many there's so
many edge cases in this. And again, like the nice thing about like doing this all in one big model
is that you can this can all be one big model rather than like, oh, this is a
How do you figure out what points were awarded to in a team game?
So, in a team game, it is the case that we say
I'm so off track.
Yeah, no worries.
Sorry. You have 10 minutes left.
In a team game, it's just that it's just so the way that this thing works underneath the hood is
it says every individual player has like some like skill value. And that's kind of like the
core of what the model is estimating. And in a team game, you're putting up two players
who are on the same team against like, you're just adding their skill values together.
And then against the two players on the other team, adding their skill values together.
So, it awards a single point per team, but it's determining like the probability of like which
team is going to get awarded a point based on the underlying skill of the members of the team.
But yeah, I guess all of that to say, though, that like doing this
in a single Bayesian model lets you oops, this is the wrong one. This is going to look really
nightmarish because it's just it's accounting for all of these extra edge cases and whatnot.
Sorry, are we looking at Stan?
Yeah, I am.
I don't know if anyone knows what Stan is.
Oh, Stan. So, Stan is like a it's a hyper focused like probabilistic programming language
that has like an interface to R, an interface to Python, but it's really just focused in on like
purely writing models. And the really, really nice thing is that Stan code is almost a one for
one map to like if you write LaTeX, if you write out a model on pen and paper, it's really,
really, really similar looking. So, there's almost like a one to one direct translation.
It is like a little bit of a hurdle to get up and running with.
And it is to get it installed. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, and I'm in just like getting used to like the workflow and whatnot. So, I have to
at any at any given opportunity, show Richard McElroy's statistical rethinking for I don't know,
everyone should go read that book and it'll unwire your brain about how to think about modeling.
But yeah, sorry, I'm just rambling. So, does anyone have any questions? I'm just
I'm just yapping about Stan and math and I don't know.
We did have a question, which was, have you shared your analysis and you have not shared the
end of your analysis yet, but have you shared the analysis with the dropout slash I'm actually
people? I know that they do pop into Reddit quite a lot.
I don't think I, I, my working assumption was that they are, would not see something from the
little, little likes of me. So, I had not. Although I did, I guess like the, I think I shared it on
I, at the time I was, I was still on Twitter. I shared it on Twitter and like tag Brennan Lee
Mulligan, who is, as this model found, like would have the best sense of like,
as this model found like would have the best skill.
If you'd like to, you know, taking into all those considerations.
But I'm sure he gets like a bajillion people tagging him every day and stuff.
Oh, I'm sure. Absolutely. So you found out that Brennan followed by
John Jeremy and Erica. Oh, and Matt is up there as well. Actually had the highest skill.
Yeah. Relative skill relative to other people.
Right. Right. So, if this is looking at like, if, if you were to
rank order uh everyone's like underlying skill
The way that Bayesian models work is that you generally run
like thousands and thousands and thousands of simulations. So
this is looking at like, in each of those, like, you know, that
set of simulations, we can estimate for an individual
player's skill. If you take, if you rank within each simulation,
from like,
best to worst, those skill values, what's the average across all the simulations,
where that person ends up in like that ordered ranking. So Brennan has an average rank of like
six, just means he's very often up at the top out of like, I think it's like 187 or so. So he is,
on average, the highest ranked player. This accounts for things like, if I scroll down,
there are some players here who have, like Jamel Wood, for example, I think he was a
guest contestant who did just blew everyone out of the water, but he was also only on like one
episode. So his uncertainty interval is really, really, really wide, versus someone like Erica
Ishii, who has been on like several, several different episodes. So she has like a little
bit of a tighter uncertainty interval interval than like someone who's only on once. So doing
this sort of like across all of the simulations comparison negates, or it adjusts for this
difference in uncertainty between different people. Okay. One more question. When we're
talking about relative skill relative to other people, does that mean that if somebody of high
skill is playing against other contestants of low skill, that that win is discounted?
It just means that you would expect them to do pretty well. And if they,
if they don't do well, then it means then it's probably the case that they
that like the model will update their, their skill estimates to be like
lower. And then the inverse for the person who is.
like low skill and then like did really, really well. I looked at like a couple like hypothetical
examples. So if you put this, this match has never happened. But if you put like
Brennan Lee Mulligan, Ify Nwadiwe, and then like Ali Beardsley all in a match together,
Brennan is likeliest to win. But obviously, like, if he and Ali have like, not a non trivial chance
of winning. They at least have a lot of overlap in there. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
Amazing. Well, do we have any questions, Isabella that I have missed? I feel like,
I feel like it's hard to compare anybody to Brennan Lee Mulligan, because he's a superhuman brain.
But I think that there's something to be said for like, the instinct that everybody has that
says that if he is the best, that there's something that is non skill related, that
makes us want to just say that if he is the best, and I love if he so I,
I would probably be on that same train. I think that there's, I was gonna appear
because we did have just like on that note, there's like a big benefit of sort of like the
like what what Dami did what this is doing, is that like, rather than like constructing
like a proxy from things that you have sort of like readily available, because like Bayesian
models themselves are so flexible, and you can implement really like,
whatever, there's a really good example of it is this is my favorite paper.
I was just gonna say this feels really applicable to sports.
Yes. So this yeah, the sorry, I'm like trying to do too much all at once.
You're fine. No pressure. Two minutes, 20 seconds.
So yeah, here we go. This is so so one of the things that's like nice about like Bayesian
models is that you can actually like, if you have some sort of like obscure thing that you're
interested in, like the the math nerds will say your if your estimate is your quantity of interest
is like difficult to measure, you can still measure it directly and like directly encode,
encode that in the model, rather than constructing sort of like a, a weird proxy that like kind of
gets out of it kind of doesn't. And that's kind of what, you know, counting up total wins is it's
like a proxy for player skill, but it isn't what player skill is directly. So you can include that
in the model, even though we don't, like, there's not any observations for player skill. This example
is looking at this is like the Bayesian model workflow from that, like, Gelman and some folks
on like the standup team like put together a while ago, but as like an example of like, flexible
software implementations, they rather than fitting like a logistic regression to like a set of
golfers, you know, taking putts, they fit what they call like a geometric model where they actually
model, you know, do the sort of like geometry, encode like the actual, like, geometry in terms
of like distance and like shot angle and like radius of the radius of the hole in golf, encode
that in the model directly to get like, you know, if you were to use a pure statistical model, you
get kind of a bad fit. You do this geometric fit and it's much, much better. Yeah.
All right. I'm going to interrupt you in your last 30 seconds and say,
the people demand you talk about your Arc browser.
Oh, I like Arc. I like that it has I like that it does like mirroring across multiple things. The
only thing I don't like about it is that sometimes if I pull up something and then
like this screen goes like kind of gray and it always throws me off.
It's like when your shiny app goes to sleep.
Yeah. But I love it. Just quick and easy and snappy.
Yeah. I think a lot of people have said like, Hey, it's not supported anymore. It's just not being
actively developed, but I think that they are still like applying security patches and stuff,
which is good enough for a lot of people.
Yeah. Yeah. At some point I will have to I don't know when also at some point I'll have to migrate
off of Arc to whatever the new flavor of thing is, but for now it still works.
All right. Well, also Zach had said this probably isn't possible or realistic,
but what do you think about doing something like this for Game Changer? And I said,
I pity the fool who tries to analyze Game Changer.
Oh, Zach, I have thought about that. And it is all of the asterisks.
Honestly, I have too. I think that Mark and I have talked.
Yeah. Everything that I was like, Oh man, this is like the I'm actually thing was so
weird and wonky and strange. There's like a myth like that times a million for Game Changer.
Yeah. Often Game Changer is so chaotic. If anybody has not watched Game Changer,
this last season of Game Changer was probably the funniest that I've ever seen. And it's
Game Changer is a game show where the rules are constantly changing according to things
that are happening in the game show. And oftentimes rules are abandoned. Things go
crazy and you end up with like this inverse reality. I highly recommend it if you have not
watched it. I will also plug one more thing for Dropout. If you like D&D and you enjoy watching
actual play podcasts, the production value of Dimension 20 is amazing. Go watch the early ones,
especially Crown of Candy, Unsleeping City. Like they just have fantasy high, just have amazing
production value with their sets. Okay. We have one more lab manager for today and that is Sam
Parmer. And we still don't know if his mic works. So let's find out in real time.
Sam, does your mic work now? Hello. Can you hear me now?
Yay. Oh, he's the Verizon guy. Okay. Let's do it. Sam, would you like to introduce yourself?
Yes. So Sam Parmer. I was a, I guess, member of the data science community. It's been a while
since I rejoined, just because of work and other obligations. And I'm a part of some external
working groups and then I also work in pharma. And yeah, I'll be sharing some of my adventures
with Corto Extensions. So I'm going to share my screen. That's okay if you want.
Absolutely. Let's do it. I will put 15 minutes on the clock for you, but hey,
our time is going to run out around that time anyway. So let's do it. Reminder, everybody,
you can ask questions in Discord if you would like to.
All right. I need to rejoin. Permissions. Zoom. Yeah. Great. Sorry.
You got it. Dami will sing again.
Dami will sing again.
Rita Ora?
Not Rita Ora.
Wait, who's Rita Ora?
A real person.
Danny DeVito's wife.
That's Rhea Perlman.
Oh. Your disco needs you? No, that's Kyla's.
Wait. Wait while we... Rita Ora is like a model and an actress.
In what?
In things that are maybe in the UK and things that I don't know.
Help. Are you from the UK? Do you know who Rita Ora is?
You don't see your profile pic in Zoom. I don't know why, Marcos. I don't know.
I see everybody else's. I think I do. Or wait, maybe I just see people who are sharing their
camera. Sam is back. But Sam, if you are speaking, we cannot hear you.
Yeah. Sam, are you sharing your screen? Yeah, I see your screen. But I don't hear you. Hold on.
We need to find Sam and make him a co-host again.
Perfect. Thank you.
He's back. Thank you.
I just want to quickly show Corto, if you've never used it before. It's a flavor of Markdown
as well as a command line interface. And this is a general scheme of what's going on.
You have Corto, and then you have some sort of engine that converts R code over to Markdown
or Python code. This engine can be swapped out with other ones, depending on what you're using
with Corto. And then ultimately, you end up getting all these different wonderful formats,
HTML, PDF, Word, PBTX, Reveal.js. And it's a lot of, I guess, awesomeness there.
If you've never been to the Corto website, there's a lot of resources there, documentation there,
that's worth checking out. The gallery is great, because you can learn more about some examples
people have created. And how I originally learned about extensions, which is what I'm going to be
focusing on, is from Rich and the talk he did in PositConf 2023. This was absolutely amazing,
and it kind of inspired me to just go down this rabbit hole a little bit and start learning more.
So, as a part of this talk, he did plug this, and I'll share links maybe after I'm done,
but basically, he plugged this listing that they have on the Corto website. So, if you want to get
there, you can basically go to the maincorto.org page, and then you go over to extensions, and then
you'll see all these different categories that are available. And basically, these are community-made
Corto extensions that people host on GitHub, and you can see the authors for the related types of
extensions. As an alternative to this, more recently, within, I think, the last year or so,
Mikhail, who's on the Corto development team, has created this awesome alternative Corto listing.
And if you, like, Google Corto extensions, you'll see, I think, this in the top, like,
10 search results or something like that, or top five. And it's just as good, and it follows a
similar scheme. I think he had reached out to get some feedback, and he ended up changing the UI,
and I really love it. So, I thought I would plug that, too. And the main reason I'm plugging this
is this is kind of like the backend to the extension that I recommend anyone who uses
Positron install on their computers. This is basically, I think, the resource or the library
of all the extensions that he uses for Corto Wizard. So, Corto Wizard is this wonderful
Positron extension that makes installing and managing your Corto extensions that you might
have for any project very simple. So, I'm just going to plug that real quick. I'm going to
reshare my screen and make sure I share my window. Okay. So, content only.
I see a browser in the background, and then in Positron, very, very small in front. There we go.
Okay. Yeah. So, it's just an outline that I came up with a few minutes ago. So, basically,
the extension is available. If you go to, let me see, extensions, and you can search
wizard, and you'll see Corto Wizard. You can install it, and it's on the VSX registry. It's
also available on VS Code, their marketplace, if you use that and you still haven't migrated over
to Positron, that's fine. And it's wonderful. This is basically what it looks like. I've
installed a few of the extensions that I've built over the years here, and the main idea is that you
can basically just search the registry, which is the website I showed you, and browse all the
different types of extensions that are available there, and I think it's over 300. So, this makes
like the user experience of trying to identify extensions or discover them much easier. So,
there's like the discovery question, like similar to our universe, or, you know,
PyPy that a lot of people run into, like, okay, how do I know what's out there? Well,
this is the solution to that. So, I just want to plug that, and the extensions that I've built
basically are hosted or available, discoverable on these two resources, the Quarto Wizard or the
listings that I shared. Okay. So, I'm going to talk about some of the extensions I made,
and I thought I would start with a fun one that I first made to kind of step into this area,
and this is based on this kind of funny Easter egg collection in JavaScript that was written
by Wei Chia-Ching, and it's really cool. So, if you want to use this, I think we'll be doing an
update soon, because I haven't touched it in a while. The general idea is that you can incorporate
Easter eggs, and the Easter eggs work where you just type in some sort of secret command,
and it does, like this animation just pops in. So, if I type in hi, that'll come in.
If I type in haha, this will just go through your web page.
Are you typing something? Because I can't see.
Oh, yeah. Let me reshare. Sorry. Okay. Yeah, thanks for telling me that.
Did anybody else see him typing? No.
No. Okay. Okay.
Okay. So, this is what it looks like. I'll just need to remember to switch back and forth. Okay.
So, it's Quarto Easter eggs, and the idea here is I type in hi, the special command,
wink, like it's another command, and then there's a preset collection that he already had built. So,
it's really easy for me to port over the JavaScript code, and then I bundle it together in this kind
of cool info page for anyone who wants to use it. So, I think there's one pokeball. Let me see.
There's bat, and there's other ones. So, yeah, you can check it out if you're interested.
UFO. Yeah, there's UFO. Okay. So, that was a kind of like a low stakes project that was fun,
and nobody ever uses it. That's fine. It's just something that I can kind of chuckle at,
and maybe
Please do the pokeball really quickly. We need it.
Yeah, let me see if I can type it in without making a typo.
No mistakes. That's hard. The longer these words get, the harder it gets to, like,
do them with no mistakes. People demand demonstrations.
Yeah, there it is.
Oh, my goodness.
So, yeah. Right now, I think the GIFs or animations are linking to his website,
but I'm going to see if I can fix that. So, this is kind of like a fun example that I like
Demi's presentation she did. So, I thought I would share this one first. The really more complicated
one that I ended up getting into after that was this flashcards extension, and I'll just share
the page instead of sharing my screen. Maybe that'll be a little bit easier.
So, the general idea is that, let me see here,
that I wanted to see if I could, like, create, and I understand Anki is, like,
the alternative that a lot of people use for flashcards, and it's great.
And I think that the algorithm that they have in Anki is way better
But I wanted to have like a very simple alternative in Quarto, so I use reveal.js
And and so when you see a Quarto extension
You'll usually see this sort of extensions folder, and this is basically whenever you install the extension
This is the material that basically gets put into your directory
So whenever like you're updating it and it'll reference this information and generally all the extensions will have this like underscore
extension yaml file there that has a lot of important information including some of the scripts that are referenced and the config information so this
config information is actually what's like
updatable
And different extensions do this in a different way
But the idea is that you like basically surfacing some sort of interface to make it easier for your end-users to maybe customize the extension
According to their needs so here's a very simple one
There's like a flip key that I have a shuffle key
Button that will be shown or hidden depending on what they want and then a reset on slide chain
So specifically there was a request from a community member who was actually a teacher who said okay?
This is great, but whenever I go to the next slide
I wanted to reset the previous slide so then I added that in because they were using it for their class and some of the
Students were I guess I'm getting
annoyed by that
And there's like a different color for the front and color for the back that was another piece of feedback that I had gotten
This is what it looks like it's very simple to use easy to set up
And let me show you the syntax really quickly
Here so the syntax is one where basically use this sort of div
triple colon
Format and then you specify the class for the flash card in the front flash card for the back
And then you basically just use a reveal.js syntax for a slide which is basically like a header to level there
So you're basically reusing if you're familiar with a reveal.js in corto you're using that sort of thing
But instead your slide is now a flash card
Amazing
So there's like a dead image from Wikipedia
That's why the image doesn't show up initially
And then you can sort of use the existing thing stuff from corto and reuse that
so the
Histogram there you can do a different background and a lot of other stuff if you need to shuffle you can do that
So that's like one of the first ones
I really got into and there's others that I made that I think or maybe we're sharing the quiz one
Is probably the one that I think is maybe out of the most value for people and including some professors
especially if you're doing like a workshop and
The general idea here is that using a similar scheme with some of the stuff that I talked about the flashcards extension
And it has a little bit of a different syntax though
So in this case, all you do is specify a class at the end of your sort of slide title
And then you can use a list syntax for like your bullet points and instead of reading it as bullet points
It reads it as options for your quiz basically and each of the quiz questions are kind of self isolated
But you can actually calculate your score and include that if you want to and there's a lot of features baked in
So you can sort of decide like for example
There's a community member that asked about adding explanations on like why an answer is right or wrong. So that's baked in
And like a lot of stuff so each of my cortex and you usually have like some sort of keyboard shortcut
So the other one I think you were sure was Q
So if you hit the Q button, then it's like really easy to go back and forth very similar with the quiz extension
If you hit the number one
It'll select the first option if you hit the number two
It'll select the second option and so on and then if you hit the C button
It'll check it for you. And there's like another one for like resetting as well
And basically all the information is there on the footer so you can try it out and sort of learn how to use it as
You go through the example
Yeah, so this is what it looks like and then you'll see you can render a code
And then you can also get
Yeah, some examples that will automatically
Randomize a little bit to you. So all the options will randomize for some questions if you want that
And then you can also embed pictures and that kind of stuff
This is so cool. I think we all agree that this is so cool
And we have a question actually if we want to step back to the flashcard one
Dan Chen had asked is there a way to make it three-sided because when you are
Working in I think he was talking about learning Chinese like you need
Different versions of characters as options, which is a great
Like may probably common use case across a few languages
Yeah, maybe maybe that would
Mean that I haven't been asked about right now
I've only been thinking of flashcards as having like a front and back identity
Yeah, but maybe if you raise an issue about that with an example, I could sort of look into how feasible that would be. Yeah
Amazing. All right. Do we have five minutes left? Do you happen to have?
Anything else you would like to show us or we can do some questions as well
Yeah, I mean there's others that I've made the quarto Excalibur one is really cool one
We're just like gives you like an Excalibur Dom and it's very similar to the quarto drop extension
So all you do is basically you press a button
let's see if I can move this right here or you press a shortcut and then you get like a
basically
see here you get like a
Excalibur canvas that you can operate off of so this is great
If you have like slides or other information, then I think about Excalibur as you can sort of save some of this information
I don't know if I ended up
Like filling an issue regarding like local storage
So like if you updated any of this content, it would save for your web page instance
But maybe I'll do that in the future
Yeah, so this is kind of a cool one if you've ever used Excalibur for this kind of thing
And then the last one I will just plug really quickly is a speech extension
Which I think is also really cool and this supports some reveal
Just code those already in the community over to quarto and the idea here is that I'm gonna allow my microphone
I think Isabel you might have seen this one
But basically I can control my slides with my voice because it uses the voice recognition API in your browsers
So if I say next slide
You
See if it works Wow next slide
Yeah, so it's working there sorry, I was worried that zoom would overwrite it yeah, I was worried too and then previous slide
Yes, it does that and then there's like additional commands you can bake in and you can even like have an easter egg if you like
Really wanted to be cool
Example goes over like how you could like count sheep one sheep
Yeah, and then you could sort of keep going and that kind of thing
Yeah, that'll be cool sure
This is so cool
This is very very cool. I think that you are one of the most prolific community contributors to
Extensions and I had saw a question on blue sky recently about extensions. I think just yesterday that was like
Like kind of what is an extension are they as fragile as packages, right if they're all stored on github
What happens if they update the extensions that I've used have just like I run a command
They pull down into an extensions folder and then they stay there and they don't really need to call back to anything
Can you talk a little bit in your last like minute about that how extensions even work?
Yeah, so in most cases they don't they're usually self-contained
it's worth maybe looking through some of the source code and making sure they're not reaching out to some sort of
Website because in some cases like similar some are funny our packages
They could do that. So that's just something to be aware of it for security minded
But generally speaking like it like I showed you you'll see this sort of underscore extension yaml file along with another
Files that accompany that and they'll all be self-contained within an underscore extensions folder as you said
So yeah, it's kind of like up to the user
These are like self-hosted on github, so it's just important to be aware of that
Perfect. Thank you so much for the explanation
Big huge. Thank you to Dami Mark and Sam today. Everybody give them a round of applause. This was so much fun
Thanks for hanging out. We'll see you soon
Thursday or next week. Bye everybody